BingeCast: Predict Your Next Netflix Marathon (Step-by-Step Guide)

Welcome to the BingeCast project! This guide will walk you through every step of building a machine learning model to predict how many episodes a user might binge-watch. We'll start from scratch, create our own data, and end up with a working predictor.

What This Project Does ?

This project builds two machine learning models (Linear Regression and Random Forest) to predict the number of episodes a user will binge-watch based on four features:

Age

Mood (Happy, Sad, Stressed, etc.)

Preferred Genre (Comedy, Drama, etc.)

Time of Day (Morning, Evening, etc.)

It's a complete, beginner-friendly ML workflow in one script.

How to Use

1. Set Up Your Environment

First, you need to have Python installed. You'll also need a few key libraries. You can install them using pip from your terminal:

pip install pandas numpy scikit-learn matplotlib seaborn


pandas & numpy: For creating and managing our data.

scikit-learn (sklearn): For preprocessing, building the models, and evaluation.

matplotlib & seaborn: For creating our visualizations.

2. Run the Script

Save the binge_predictor.py file to your computer. Open your terminal, navigate to the folder where you saved the file, and run the following command:

python binge_predictor.py


3. What Happens When You Run It

The script will execute all the steps automatically and print its progress to your terminal:

[Step 2]: It generates 1,000 synthetic user profiles and prints the first 5 rows (the "head") of the new dataset.

[Step 3]: It generates the first set of plots for "Exploratory Data Analysis." The script will pause here. You must close the plot window that appears to let the script continue.

[Step 4]: It preprocesses the data, splitting it and converting categories (like 'Happy' or 'Comedy') into numbers the models can understand.

[Step 5]: It trains both the Linear Regression and Random Forest models.

[Step 6]: It evaluates both models on the hidden test data and prints their R² Score (higher is better) and RMSE (lower is better). It will tell you which model performed best.

[Step 7]: It generates a final set of plots showing the best model's predictions vs. the actual values, and a chart of which features (like 'Mood_Bored' or 'Time_of_Day_Late Night') were most important for making predictions.

[End]: Once you close the final plot window, the script will finish. 